# implement-blockchain-using-nodejs

Blockchain is a distributed and immutable ledger of transactions, in which each transaction is inexorably linked to the prior one. As the primary purpose of the blockchain, operation in untrusted decentralized environments can be secured by both the record of transactions, and decentralized consensus on the validity of the transaction record. In addition, transactions implement operational code, enabling software services between untrusted users. Since first used in cryptocurrencies, interest has been increasing as both industry and academics evaluate the applications and operation of the underlying blockchain technologies. Particularly, blockchain has been envisioned as a viable solution to the many needs of emergent applications, including Internet of Things (IoT), Big Data, Cloud and Edge Computing, Identity Management, and many others. Simultaneously, significant work is ongoing in industry to evaluate the efficacy of blockchain for various business applications, and the frameworks themselves are evolving within this atmosphere to realize the potential future needs.
This report provides summary of how blockchain technology works. It also discusses current applications of blockchain technology and possible future applications – in both the context of private transactions and public records. Finally, the report addresses some of the possible economic opportunities connected with blockchain technology as well as risks associated with both the technology and its uses.
   

The blockchain is distributed among thousands of computers or “nodes” with a process for validating transactions that utilizes a group consensus protocol. Making an addition to a blockchain ledger requires the approval of the network at large making retrospective changes essentially impossible. Proof-of-Work, or PoW, is the original consensus algorithm in a Blockchain network. In Blockchain, this algorithm is used to confirm transactions and produce new blocks to the chain. With PoW, miners compete against each other to complete transactions on the network and get rewarded. In a network users send each other digital tokens. A decentralized ledger gathers all the transactions into blocks. However, care should be taken to confirm the transactions and arrange blocks. This responsibility bears on special nodes called miners, and a process is called mining.
While the study group evaluated blockchain technology generally, its impact will be affected most by its implementation. Evaluating the soundness of blockchain technology is akin to evaluating the efficacy of a lock. Just as the security of a lock is called into question if everyone in town has a copy of the key, the security of the blockchain is heavily dependent on its protocols– how it verifies transactions, what encryption algorithms are used, and more. Without proper implementation, as with any tool or technology, the efficacy of the blockchain will be compromised.
                
